
CS 403 PA1 Report - Sueda Şeker 28325

In the ConSet class, we have insert and pop operations to be used by the Leader class. I used semaphores to ensure concurrency. Semaphore s with argument 0 is created to keep track of the empty set. The semaphore m with argument 1 acts as a mutex. For the insert operation since there is no need to check if the set is empty or not, we directly start the computations by acquiring the semaphore m which means that part is atomic until we release the mutex. In this part, the function simply checks if the item is in the set and sets it to True, otherwise it adds the item then sets it to True. Since the insert operation is done, it releases the mutex but also after that, it also releases the semaphore s which increases its variable, meaning that the set is not empty and in fact, there can be n many pop operations until the semaphore's variable is 0 again.

The pop operation can be done as long as the semaphore s can be acquired meaning that the set is not empty. There can be as many operations as the number of elements in the set. Also acquiring the semaphore s means the variable of the semaphore is decreased, therefore the number of elements that can be popped is decreased. After the acquisition of the semaphore s, now we need the mutex to do the pop operations which ensures the concurrency and the linearizability of the program. There can't be any pop or insert operations done at the same time, they will be done consecutively. After the pop operation is done, it releases the mutex.

In the Leader class, we have the nodeWork function which takes the node id and the number of nodes n as the parameters. First it initializes the mailboxes for n nodes and sets the round number to 1. Then we have a while loop which will run until a leader is chosen by the algorithm, otherwise it will keep trying. First a random number is generated between 0 and n^2 and a tuple created with the node's id and the random number as a message to be sent. Here, the barrier is used to synchronise the threads to avoid confusion between rounds. The proposition message of the node is printed and the message is sent all of the nodes including the current node with the insert operation. Then all the incoming messages of the node is check with the pop operation. Since the the node number is n, n messaged is popped and checked. After that we check each incoming message to find the max value proposed and the node who sent it. If there was only one node that sent the maximum value, the operation is done. The leader decision of the node  is printed and the while is ended with the break statement. Otherwise, if there was more one node to send the maximum value, the round number is increased, the message of the node on could not decide on the leader is printed and the while loop continues.